feat(kgo): add watchNamespaces docs for KGO 1.6 (#8741)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/gateway-operator/guides/hardening/control-plane-watch-namespaces.md

---
title: Limiting namespaces watched by ControlPlane
---

> {{site.kgo_product_name}}'s `ControlPlane` watches all namespaces by default.
> This is a convenient out of the box experience but might not fit all production environments,
> specifically those with multiple teams sharing the same cluster or in multitenant environments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, {{ site.kgo_product_name }}'s `ControlPlane` watches all namespaces.
This provides a convenient out-of-the-box experience but may not suit all production environments, especially those where multiple teams share the same cluster or in multitenant setups.
```

To limit the namespaces watched by `ControlPlane`, you can set the `watchNamespaces` field in the `ControlPlane`'s `spec`.

## ControlPlane's watchNamespaces field

> The `spec.watchNamespaces.type` accepts 3 values to control this behavior:
> 
> - `all`: default, as the name implies, watch resources in all namespaces
> - `own`: makes the `ControlPlane` only watch resources in its own namespace
> - `list`: makes the `ControlPlane` watch resources in its own namespace and the provided list of namespaces

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `spec.watchNamespaces.type` field accepts three values to control this behavior:

- `all` (default): Watches resources in all namespaces.
- `own`: Watches resources only in the `ControlPlane`'s own namespace.
- `list`: Watches resources in the `ControlPlane`'s own namespace and in the specified list of additional namespaces.
```

  Using "list" also adds ControlPlane's own namespace to the list of watched namespaces

>   because that's that KIC does.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  because that's what KIC does.
```

>   Using "list" also adds ControlPlane's own namespace to the list of watched namespaces
>   because that's what KIC does.
>   The reason for this is the publish service (`DataPlane`'s `Service` exposed by {{site.base_gateway}})
>   by default would exist in the same namespace as `ControlPlane`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  When using `list`, the `ControlPlane`'s own namespace is automatically added to the list of watched namespaces, because this behavior is required by {{ site.kic_product_name }}.  
  By default, the publish service (the `Service` for the `DataPlane`, exposed by {{ site.base_gateway }}) is created in the same namespace as the `ControlPlane`.
```

> Note: Please mark that this setting in `ControlPlane` will set the `CONTROLLER_WATCH_NAMESPACE`

> > environment variable in managed {{ site.kic_product_name }} so setting this via

Reviewer 2: Does this mean setting `CONTROLLER_WATCH_NAMESPACE` via `podTemplateSpec` has higher priority than this? I think the word here is not very clear. How about 
```suggestion
> environment variable in managed {{ site.kic_product_name }} so setting the watched namespaces in the environment variable via
```

> `podTemplateSpec` will override this.

## Specify a list of namespaces to watch

`all` and `own` types are self-explanatory and do not require any further changes
or additional resources.

The `list` type requires 2 additional steps:

> - you must specify the namespaces to watch in the `spec.watchNamespaces.list` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You must specify the namespaces to watch in the `spec.watchNamespaces.list` field.

```

    ```yaml
    spec:
      watchNamespaces:
        type: list
        list:
        - namespace-a
        - namespace-b
    ```

> - you must create a `WatchNamespaceGrant` resource in each of the specified namespaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You must create a `WatchNamespaceGrant` resource in each of the specified namespaces.
```

>   This resource grants the `ControlPlane` the permission to watch resources in said namespace.
>   It can be defined as:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This resource grants the `ControlPlane` permission to watch resources in the specified namespace.  
  It can be defined as:

```

    ```yaml
    apiVersion: gateway-operator.konghq.com/v1alpha1
    kind: WatchNamespaceGrant
    metadata:
      name: watch-namespace-grant
      namespace: namespace-a
    spec:
      from:
      - group: gateway-operator.konghq.com
        kind: ControlPlane
        namespace: control-plane-namespace
    ```

> For more information on the `WatchNamespaceGrant` CRD please consult the [CRD reference](/gateway-operator/{{ page.release }}/reference/custom-resources#watchnamespacegrant).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information on the `WatchNamespaceGrant` CRD, check [CRD reference](/gateway-operator/{{ page.release }}/reference/custom-resources#watchnamespacegrant).
```
